hi everyone welcome to the dynamic data
and capabilities working group for BFS
today is generally 29th and I'm going to
share my screen so we can start the
meeting
everyone please fill out the notes today
I'm going to lead this but as you'll see
later are later asked for volunteers to
queue up for leading the next sessions
and also please fill in the weekly
updates far below ok is there a
volunteer to take notes today
I can do it thank you Jim thank you so
much
all right so let's start with the round
of updates first on the list is and
recruit shuttles or genetics is funky
weird
[Music]
you can't hide like let's start with a
round off and then you can yeah is it
okay now
yeah yeah it's weird I'm tethered but
okay so let start with a round with the
rounds of updates and Ray you're the
first one you go yeah alright so in
terms of what I've concluded I finished
the word floor plan for the IDM it's
basically a spreadsheet that organizes
the breakdown document into milestones
and each milestone as an objectives I
like PRS and they have a finest for
those for those in trees and also an
estimate of duration of those tasks
that's basically it so you can check it
and also along the way I've factored the
IDM breakdown document because the
organization that it has that it has now
is better I think it's it's much better
you can also check for the new structure
there and I've also coordinated a to
brainstorm sessions on a little top
topics that people participated in the
last the last week in progress I'm
working on two papers at the moment one
about the concept of IDM which is you
know summary basically a summary of the
RFC that we made Pedro and I in John so
that we can present a two-page summary
of the RFC so that
on the reboot web of trust and next
month and also I'll be working on
another paper which is the IBM spec
which is a document that has some
interfaces well defined interfaces of
the the IBM core and the IBM client and
you find some other concepts in terms of
how can the client communicate with me
by the encode because there are a lot of
scenarios going on and that's with weeds
the first paper is still empty because
it will be the easiest one just a part
of the RFC and make it make it smaller
the the spec paper already has a few
stuff in there but it's very drafty I'm
just sketching things and experimenting
with interfaces on it would be exciting
right now don't shake it now because
it's executives and I'm not not blocking
anything and my next things just one
which is to create a small presentation
about a DM project and by small
presentation I mean smoke PDF alike or
PowerPoint presentation for to present
to people including the people that will
actually be implementing IDM so that
they understand what IBM tries to solve
and how and that's cool Thank You Andre
just some people know bit more about
about the context so very early next
March there's going to be the eighth
edition of rebooting web of trust
conference there's a call for well to
participate you you have to propose that
people can either choose to vibrate
during the the the gathering itself at
the conference it's more of I know it
symposium and and then and then that's
what we and Ray is doing now so that we
can apply before the end of the month so
yeah also if anyone is is
willing to join us there is a an event
entry on protocol labs
event management repo I think it's
private mature but if if you want your
planning on attending or if you want to
attend please you can also get it get in
touch with with some of us any questions
for Andre on this
No all right so next in line is then
congratulations again
yeah so my my update is gonna sound a
lot like it was about two weeks ago
which is I'm gonna catch up on some
emails and figure out all the things and
meetings that I have missed last week I
am through most of the time in through
some of the videos but they're more to
be watched
some documentation on the pure base
concepts I'm not sure if we have a new
name yet but that's what I last heard so
I'm going with that and if I have time
I'm gonna find bug we'll see whether
this happens this week or next week try
and bug some of the lead p2p folks over
how to make sure that we can I can take
the append-only tag stuff that I have
and make that work in a over public
channels as opposed to just channels
where you know who you're talking to
already based on their PR IDs and I have
an agenda item for the end to sort of
clarify from the the the D ID or the IP
ID discussion just being like hey you
guys didn't realize didn't understand
what I posted so much ask me some
questions here's what I was thinking for
the end though
to be very appreciated except that one
any question for them
no okay so let's talk about that
identity saying at the ends so next it's
me I guess last week I concluded a fix
to Delta securities which is to make the
RGA charity not dependent on causal
delivery so a great insight by my
researcher Carlos Vaquero
where he gave the idea that we could
accumulate non-mobile edges for for grj
and then try to merge them and if not
keep them in a stash as part of the
state and so that's what I implemented
and I did a bunch of tests very thorough
test of random permutations on all the
messages and I haven't been able to
break it so far but help is which on
that ISM is appreciated oh that's what
Victor wrist is telling us that that run
2.0 works like like that that's that's
also super super interesting oh it's a
good thing that's a good sign exactly so
a PFS pops of room I'll go get it so
there's a breaking change on a private
well not breaking change but there's a
private API change on JSF EFS which we
were lying on which is the lis PTP nodes
accessor which now is going to be made
public because so many people use it and
public and undocumented so we're
supporting both trying to support both
versions of that public API and the
first pass was planning amplifies pops
of room to do that next step is going to
be well I'm already started to support
that on pure base and also I've had some
some discussions around
well the lis p2p transport
reconnect which was started stemmed from
discussions around WebSocket star multi
support for starting offline and then
recovering from being offline rebinding
or trying to bind to remote servers
remote relay servers and that turned out
to be a big early p2p issue well issue
or endeavor hopefully to support better
support offline reconnect use cases in
line with that I missed last week's
local enough offline working group
meetup meeting you should attend I
missed last one I unfortunately plan to
attend the next one but that's something
related to that so find support for JSF
EFS and that's oh yes and next well this
weekend I'm going to be at Brussels for
for stem 2019 for for catching up and
I'm watching some hopefully attending
some some interesting sessions any
questions for me yeah Dirk I had a
question about the CR dt stuff you've
been doing um so you said you've already
tested that out and it's working is that
in a PR somewhere oh yeah it was it was
merged on the posterity's that there's a
PR can I can find that it's like I can
not are not interrupting throughout this
for now I can lie to send you the PR
that's part of the RGA itself you're
probably asking about the current the
current state of the the thing that
Jimmy's is is working on on vitae clocks
synchronization that's that's a
different different issue I think it's
not related the desynchronisation that
Jim is is saying not sure if if that was
okay cool and dry photos are you were
raising your hand it's not really a
question is just suggestion which is
there will be a session on Folsom I
posted on our C in the epiphyses
identity channel which is this one I
will put on on soon you might want to
attend that it's not really in line with
the discussions that we are going to
adopt in terms of you know we are
talking concerning soil I don't think
the solution area is really what we are
going to go through but it might be
useful to attend and see what they are
doing
cool thank you thank you I'll add that
to the list of sessions all right any
more questions for for for me oh cool so
next up is get back to the notes okay so
Jim okay so notes so I went to three
different working groups last week but a
lot last last week I gave a little demo
and I showed that hey everything's
working and then immediately afterwards
I discovered that actually everything
isn't working
so I'd merged Pedroza CR DT fixes and I
think the new Sierra TT is working
really good at the CR DT level the RTA
yeah it before it has these unmerged
edges have been added to the CR DT and
it sort of keeps them around then but
then when randomly so uh the we have one
test in pure base called collaboration
random and it's a fuzzing test basically
like it's it's this whole purpose is to
try to get random combinations of
basically you set so X number of peers
and they all type random characters at
the end and it all merges it together
and you run it
were you know so many characters so if
you have like I was testing with three
peers in each peer testing or typing 30
characters at random with random delays
and then at the idea of 90 characters
and all three of the peers should have
the same 90 characters at the end but
what was happening was most of the time
it would work maybe like five percent of
the time ten percent at the time it
would just stop it would never one of
the peers would never ever get the full
set of characters and I thought oh well
that's easy that's gonna be one line
fixed somewhere so a week later that's
where they spent most of the week on so
there's some issues I'm gonna just take
a minute just to show what I was doing
visually because it's gonna be
impossible to explain but basically the
idea ideas trace everything every single
thing that's happening in each of the
peers and log it all so it's more than
just logging it's tracing because you
can reconstruct what actually happened
from that data so that's why did this
week so yeah if I can get past this next
week I want to do some little offline
tape apps
let me cool thank you Jim
so I added a I had a comment on that
issue which I've been I've been
sketching out and I think I know I I
well I think I know but famous last
words
the solution but yeah let's let's stop
let's not at all I'd love to see what
what you have for tracing oh you had you
had a demo right you have a yeah Jim
yeah nice thank you any question for Jim
so far alright so let's proceed under
isosa
so hi guys so last week we had the
meeting about the discuss identity
profile it was really technical but I
was present after the meeting Salazar
told me to add the notes on the turmoil
that every every one every one of you
could see them and so from last week
until yesterday I was working on the
home page and profile page the concept
for IDM it has already an issue a new
issue on the shipyard the sorry the PMI
DM
you
or if you have a active device which was
robbed I might buy any case and you can
see the insulation or what is happening
with it just as just as an example I was
looking for the key buys a new box
tagged as a reference for for IDM as
well alright if you hadn't and/or
into the notes as well so another update
was the style guide items because I'm
following the atomic design I will
include some missing textiles for you
for larger scales and then in progress I
have right now the the wire framing and
designed the other pages for IDM
considering the concept and IA decisions
and then yeah until maybe next week I
will collaborate with andr for the subs
are shorter at the end presentation and
will come to continue with that yeah
that's it Thank You Andre yeah I took a
quick peek to the IDM information
architecture scheme it looks really
thorough complete but I'll advise
everyone to take like a deeper look to
that yeah it's an ask questions and it's
really detailed so any any any question
regarding the screens or journeys or any
specific detail yeah just let me know on
it
thank you anyway so it's something which
is I've posted here and one of the
images of the IDM concepts it's here on
Arneson checks if you could if you could
share a screen or something it will be
nice everyone could see the look and
feel of it and anyway I will actually
share my screen
another detail which I mean missing to
point out on the agenda was we made a
decision about the lock lock time for
the app because we have a lot of
information which is encrypted so if you
have any sort of expiration walk that
provides you a way to reveal information
after entering password that will be
helped to really argue the dashboard for
example because since you have the all
the details about the multiple IDs
exposed in a way after you type in the
password you can see that even populate
the dashboard or the home page
more easily can you see my screen by the
way yes right so bear in mind that the
features that you are seeing in the
screen is not the purpose of this image
just for you to feel how the white looks
will look like and the concept that we
are trying to explore so we're trying to
explore this passport alike or a
document a logic fuel to the to the
application so if you actually to
actually zoom in you see what I mean by
these illustrations so that people can
can associate this type of application
to fill the day they are used to
basically yeah something that is
stressful in terms of features will
figure if you were the final amount and
things like that it's just a concept and
if you if you if you it possibly it will
be nice to get some feedback if you if
you like this concept the concept things
I suppose is on monkey tub it just you
can read it there and add your comments
yeah okay and then there's you you
showed it briefly and right there is the
the part of the information architecture
diagram is Christian yes all right
so let me open that so this is a diagram
that we might like I'm zooming because
it's it's quite big so essentially what
we have here is all all the user
journeys and all the features inside of
small pages that are outlined here you
might check it out and give us feedback
as well it's quite complex but I think
it outlines
well what IBM really will have in terms
of the MVP so any issue on you know you
may also just take it out where that is
diagram it works only for the MVP for
now okay but it's still quite a number
of screens and information bits so I'm
not sure if if there is like a subset of
this that is going to work out on the
MVP or if it's the whole thing that
we're plans into information it's just
opening issues so that we can expose
what's going on at the moment of course
we will be convincing every everything
into a single into a single document and
so on that's why I'm doing the papers
and all that in terms of whole features
there you see here these are the MVP
that we'll have for for June end of -
okay that's it okay thank you any
questions
okay thank you and Ray if you could stop
sharing next up is sorry back to the
list Pedro so my update for this week I
was not able to open the PR as I was
supposed to and I found some I was
improving it and then I found a bird
that is not really good with its
component but I am also fixing that bug
and then I will try to open the PR with
a bug fix it
me and Andrew Cruz we also have been
chatting with Margo about the privacy
policy you have to specify we already
received a trust and we are now we have
we gave we gave Marvel our feedback and
we are waiting for the next iteration so
I did release a new version of Jessica
sigh oh it's not really that with BBC
but I did it with some new languages and
and then what I will do next I will
implement a scale animation on the app
and also the morph animation ambience
and I promise you all that next week I
will have a demo to show you how things
are smooth cool Thank You Pedro any
question for Pedro alright so Dirk I
think you're next so this week I was
working on a couple of things related to
discovery and membership that is for
pure base so when we're establishing
membership I was trying to reduce the
amount of time it takes for is to
discover each other and then to actually
form a convergent membership so I was
kind of looking at the existing
membership protocol and
some small changes there that improved
improved that time and I've done a
little bit of experimentation to
demonstrate how much it improves and
then while I was thinking about that I
realized that there's quite a lot of
round trips even just to get to that
stage where we're talking to the
discovery server and then we're talking
through flood sub so we have to set up a
flood sub connection and then send some
messages um and so I came up with a
concept of how we could build our own
kind of sub protocol in order to reduce
the number of round trips that's
specifically about discovery and
membership so I wrote a github issue
about it I just put it in the crib
headshot there if you guys want to take
a look at it and if anyone has any
comments that I've appreciate it
and I implemented that in the last
couple of days so I have it working it
seems like there are some issues still
so by the way it uses the same protocol
that we use for for sending around CID
teas so the push and pull protocol and
so because there are still some issues
around that working completely correctly
I'm seeing some issues in establishing
membership as well so it sort of depends
on the work that's ongoing there and
yeah that's about it thank you it's
really cool that that you were able to
use the same protocol for also for
membership dissemination it's really
cool and uses charity so it's very very
meta thank you any question further and
so okay so we're going to I think it's
all unless Victoria you want to give
your update you haven't put your name
there nothing interesting actually I'm
my black box testing now works so I'm
doing debug him and I hope it will be
back in at least for another week so
that is the status okay yeah Thank You
Victor
yeah hey
hello me guys are here I couldn't you
know yeah okay okay so yes so yeah I was
mostly focused on collaborations work
last week but there's a couple of things
that I want to say oh so first of all I
really like the identity manager like
visual work
it looks very trustworthy and and but
also kind of friendly but I guess one
thing that I want to point out is that
the way that the documents work it's it
reminds me very much of like kind of
European style like more modern design
but I think for Americans it might
actually not make them think of like a
passport or something because our
passports look very different he's like
very garish and horrible suggests
there's something you know the kind of a
side side note I guess the two things
that I wanted to point out is that we
now finally have a real local working
group as of last week local was an O
instead of a for collaboration so that's
that's really good and the other thing
that I want to draw some attention to is
a discussion of the head of the
reconnection API that's I guess Pedro
mentioned already
ah yes oh please chime in with comments
on that because I think that's like
pretty important to define that API well
and kind of push things in to look p2p
lands so that we don't have to worry
about them in user space so please give
that some support yeah well think
your name was not only the attendee list
and I was scrolling about and see oh
sorry I forgot to put it in there yeah I
put it in the updates yeah no worries
yeah they super super interesting that
the the PTP if you if you could all
check it out and see what what you think
my sense is that the the reconnect the
behavior should be the default behavior
so out of the box it should have a good
offline intermittent connectivity
behavior but of course the DPI is this
is very important and also the the for
people that are more intuitively p2p
transports it's also important to find
the the transports interface that's
going to be provided to I'd say switch
so that it manages is able to manage
reconnect and retries well any questions
for kadhi oh the github issue that was a
question yeah I think I added on my PI
one my applet yeah things evaders pages
updates yeah I'm going to test you on
anyway yeah yeah yeah I think the big
balancing act there is like kind of
pushing abstraction and when maybe
different transports you have like kind
of dramatically different reconnection
costs so that's we should have you know
as many people as possible chime in
there to get different perspectives yeah
of course that's a good good
good question cool so we cannot think
step into unless there are any questions
for Akkad II know we can step into the
next part of the of the agenda so first
I'm going to ask for volunteer to lead
the next month's meetings
going on with the with the product make
these meetings more more productive and
also so to rotate the the the leader of
the meetings
is there anyone volunteering to doesn't
have to be the whole month we can
perhaps split it into whatever you're
comfortable with
is anyone has a particular interest in
in helping us with leading the the
meetings and I can leave the initial
ones but I have to be out for the trust
ones because I want to be here yeah of
course they're like I can step in as
well nice arkady thank you between you
you and ray we cannot i mean we can do
alternate for instance if no one else is
interested or can alternate between
anyone that is interested in
volunteering and then and then we we can
still do we evaluate this set by later
if availability is not it is not what
expected then are then also volunteered
Thank You Jane
yeah I'll let's do hello okay we could
having a bad internet day maybe so
ourselves or or assume about having a
bet about the sorry about that time I'm
tethered using adamite to the router
directly almost directly I'm saying I
don't think that one thing to consider
is to give authorization to the zoom
account because there's an account and
for the DBC is I think you are the owner
and she if you wanna if you want to
coordinate the next meetings we won't be
able to use the same zoo mailing ID and
for instance I don't really have a zoom
account for instance I think it's a pain
by the count of something so I don't
really web pen won the
yeah I'll ask around IIT for protocol
labs see how that can work I'm sure we
we can we can come up with something so
some zoom account delegation and
schedule schedule
I'll do some some random assignments for
four for each one of the sessions and
and if you can't do with you please tell
on get up on the gita respective get up
issue helping you i'll mention you
unreadable for that thank you for the
volunteers all right so now i think we
have a demo jamie is going to show us
some tracing reconstruction that he's
been doing while debugging hard to find
bug on on Funes okay yeah so this is I
guess it less of a demo is just showing
you how it's going about it the problem
is you know we the bug only happened or
I'll share my screen first
so can everybody see that so
so this is this is pure base here and if
I look in the test directory here's our
tests and the one particular test which
I'm talking about here is the
collaboration random and basically it
starts up a number of peers so here I'm
running an OG s LD 3 peers and type some
30 characters prepared and then there's
a down here there's a this is the delay
between each character that gets typed
now when your end the test doesn't
really look like much
so I I shortened the test so it's only
three piers here so it's quicker to run
so in this case it's passing so but what
I was seeing before was that it wasn't
they would run and then it would stall
out so I in order to debug that I turned
up the debugging they add a bunch of
console.log so it's not silent anymore
but to get this sometimes
[Music]
because sometimes the node process you
can do feel all nodes looking better
that's a mic is that a monk
so I can see if I can well nobody kill
all those yeah well maybe well okay yeah
okay let's be more fun
so but that's what it looks like after I
had all my chasing stuff and I'm reading
a few changes back here see that they
passed that time but it's sort of random
so sometimes it'll fail I don't know if
I'll get it to do it
you
because it's just if you increase the
number of peers increase the number of
characters typed the chances that you're
going to hit a random situation in
pieces so of course it's a demo so it
won't actually do yeah but but that's
okay
older older ones are captured here so
maybe it's because the the CPU CPU is
being and and over to to zoom and it's
it's it could totally be something like
that so it's the randomness matters so
I'm going to show you one which I did so
actually that's the dump Oh Yakko that
paid no attention that I'm organizing my
sauces it's a mess so this is what it
would actually look like when it failed
what would happen was it would stall
here it wouldn't actually finish it
would never get to the part where you
succeeded but what I was doing was I was
tracing back so I could so I just added
a little bit of color because it's just
this this line this file is now 2,000
lines long but there's basically three
pairs and I collected some manual notes
here so basically in this case I have
I just took the last two characters of
the pier ID just make it simple and then
I sing bark us is they they have the the
parodies are consistent every single
time because we're regenerating the
appear keys
so anyways in this particular situation
we had three piers so you a um q90 got
to this state and there were 90
characters if I scroll back up UMS which
was a different pair they also got to 90
characters if I scroll back up here SH
see they got only 88 characters so for
some reason these two little characters
went missing I did some like a accents
and stuff because I wanted to have 90
different separate symbols and it's like
why it's like they'll never ever
converge and then the interesting thing
was I was looking here is I'm also
printing out I wrote a little routine to
take her our vector clocks which is
basically pure ID and an incrementing
number and for each character that's
typed and Rebecca Clark Scott complete
so 30 30 characters there for each of
them 30 characters there 30 characters
there so it's like this one got all the
vector clocks why is there little gap
here so anyway so the basically the
technique is I got dumping lots of stuff
so these big long hex things here are
the actual CR DT I'm serialized it and
printed them out as base64 p48
so I could like reconstruct them later
so I
created because it's just that the dumps
are not interesting to me I created a
little JavaScript program which is
actually not that little now but that
takes takes the the dump that the trace
and then pretty prints it basically so
if I run and if I run that one so I had
the debug output which was just the
extra console logging that I added and
then if I run this one it's now it was
2000 triggers before now it's 15 2009 s
now it's 15,000 lines but but I've got
let's see the closer
but so it's impossible to yet understand
this but this is where the letter 9 was
typed into the so somewhere in here so
one of the peers type 9 so in this case
it was um s type 9 and then I can say
before this was from the log file but
then I pretty print what the CR DT look
like so in this case there was nothing
in the CR DT it was an empty document at
that point and then he creates a delta
so the delta basically is it edged is
from nothing to 9 and I've got like the
little internal this is what the clocks
inside the Delta actually look like but
then they've serialized so you can
unwrap now from this kind of debugging
I'm sometimes using dot and one front of
my horse walking with certificate skills
also using dot to make a graph of it all
yeah yeah so this is this is just I
wasn't intending GUI is this I'm just
doing in my investigation so I think why
we could deal with this type of thing
this type of tool is I think we're gonna
use this over and over over again so it
might be good to build in like dedicated
tracing functionality and some dedicated
tooling that we can use to just do
positions and all sorts of things yeah
so anyway so as if you go further down
it's different colors so
if some blue and red so I can actually
catch the replication protocol and I can
see in this particular case I'm pretty
printing out some stuff and I can see
it's building a batch in this case
there's only one Delta in the batch but
in this investigation I was going I was
able to give any
sort of see the CEO duties are growing
here and you can see this was the Delta
so this is a CV before there's a delta
so you can see like at the end here
with the one where we had the problem
eighty-eight if I look
the Serie C Rd T final dump this
unmerged edge so we can see the e
um and unmerged edge so II but it wanted
this value tomorrow the element from
before so so is only missing a single
element so anyways I'm not gonna go I
think this meeting and go on for an hour
if we tried to actually debug this right
now but that's that's the basic
technique that I'm doing and I think we
could actually make it more of us
standard part of pure pad in terms of
being able to I don't think you want to
do the logging the way I do but like
send a log off to like a side channel
where it could be like say like archive
to disk or something and then have some
tools that could bring that in and do
these reconstructions and then you can
bring them into visualizations or tools
that can reconstruct not just one peer
but like multiple peers each of each
peer if they can be running on different
machines you can capture separate file
and all the different machines bring
them all together and do sort of like
forensic reconstruction x' to figure out
when things go go strange and this is I
I was looking at the CR DT things now
but I think the CDs working the issues
with our replication protocol that's
very interesting
thank you Jim but uh I think the if you
could think of extracting some some very
simple command-line tools that like like
I did a coupled with some capabilities
of logging that you can add some
environment variable that we can
activate for to enable logging like like
the current debug usage that we have in
in pure base that would be very
interesting and also this distributed
logging is something for p2p is for
decentralized
edge edge applications is something that
I believe it's it's kind of hard to do
but every step that we can I think
can get into that that will make this
easier to I mean I'm perhaps in a lab
environment or even in the production
environment for now a lab environment
would be would be very helpful
because we haven't had that that story
is not not great so far but sometime
later in in the production environment
where we can activate traces and the
user can volunteer Tracy is like
typically I don't know I'm thinking
about Apple net that that does that but
in a way that it's less infringement of
privacy that would be very yeah it's
it's not any different than what you do
with something like D trace or Wireshark
or EVP if you know the next thank you
I think we that's very interesting but
unless someone has a question or
observation for Jim we can jump to was
in for clarification on the identity
comment there is a here is this comment
in pmid M perhaps Adem can explain yes
so there's a couple of long comments
there I it started with the suggestion
there was a suggestion made on the
thread that a blockchain would help with
our identity problems and to thought I
sort of broke up the identity problems
into two chunks one is
you how do you find the latest version
of your di D which relates a little bit
to the conversation you guys had about
how you can have two different users or
two different devices owned by the same
user both making a change to the D ID
and this thing is solved this thing is
solved by anything with an agreement
protocol right so a blockchain where you
make sure to add all the blocks to the
chain you can make a CR DT out of the
blocks and then you can get your your
structure and you're good you can use
the leadership stuff that Dirk has been
working on that will also do it you can
use the sort of multi writer append-only
graph thing that I've been working on
that will also do it right any of those
things will solve this problem I because
none of those those are all still in
development and have ups and downs to
them I added in sort of a bonus other
options for solving that problem which
is the way I understand how ipfs IP NS
use the DHT is that there's this bear
distributed hash table thing and then
there are validators on top of it that
apply the specific rules of the system
so for ipfs the rule is something like
take your top you know take anyone who
will host all the multi addresses of
people who will host the data and take
the top 20 and and keep those around and
for IP NS it's you can only push if your
peer ID is the key is the IP NS key and
only keep the latest version but in
theory we could tweak those to do
something specific type the ID or that
helps us out
so for instance you could say if you
receive two updates concurrently instead
of doing the IP NS thing which is choose
a winner instead you could just set a
flag that says you know error key has
been compromised or errors simultaneous
right and then you would sort of
failover into stage two of figuring out
what to do next
now that the bad thing has happened you
also you know you can't really keep both
of the changes around in the arbitrary
case in Glasgow I spoke with Stephen and
Pedro about this how if you need to keep
all of the simultaneous conflicts than
the amount of data that you're asking
this very kind DHT no that's storing
data for free for you to have could
balloon but it's possible that for the
IP ID case we can make an exception
because you could say if you're an IP ID
hosting DHT node then you can actually
do the merging yourself you can pull the
down the documents do the merge and and
do it like that I can clarify that more
if if there are questions that was
the the suggestion I had as an
alternative to all these consensus
things that we're still working on
alright so then the next the next layer
of the next question which you guys went
through was what happens when you want
to revoke a key so solution one was
basically don't lose your key have a
single key you Sameer secret sharing two
moving around don't keep the thing just
just please don't lose your key okay
solution to was will give you a key you
can use and then please don't lose the
other key similar to the first one
except that that the second one you can
lose it like you can you can get a
compromise because you can use the
frisky to recover or you're writing
exactly exactly so you use the first key
to do things like adding which is stuff
you're gonna do normally and then for
revocation you use key B and you can do
that cool
the other option I wrote in the note was
basically the same as I had those two
world you know also there and also part
of this but there's the possibility for
another extension or two extensions one
is for the thing that has the two
layered approach it sounded in the video
like you guys moved away from that
because the fear was that you'd have to
do to IP NS requests and those can take
a long time to resolve I was also more
come
we implement a second version of ibid
which uses the second layer and later on
once we have the MPB ready okay
yeah say yes I just wanted to clarify
that you don't actually need to IP NS
requests because if you had something if
you had a way of like flagging you know
or solving that problem one that first
problem of the multi writer thing or
having a flag you could just wait until
the layer two key the non primary key
you could wait until that key has been
compromised and then go look at the
other address instead of looking at the
primary address and forwarding to the
secondary you could look at the
secondary wait for a conflict and then
go back to the primary so that means
that you actually only need one IP n s
request until a key has been compromised
so that helps you out there the the
other thing is secret sharing is cool
but if the problem is that you actually
do end up reconstructing a key and that
key could get compromised but you can
use group signature schemes to say
instead of giving you know part of my
key to pedro in parts uh you know under
and part to gym right instead i could
just say if two out of Pedro Andhra and
Jim sign my request then that one's the
real one right and now there's no key to
get compromised there's just a way of
moving which one is the real one as
opposed to which one is the one that was
stolen it's a lot of information but but
yeah questions I mean yeah I think it's
now better explain it in terms of me
understanding what you saying in the
negative issue and I think that it might
be worth looking into your your
solutions that you propose now once we
we think about the the better solution
and more user-friendly solution for for
IP ID which is you know the second
version of API key because the first one
is not very user friendly because
whenever you pair any device you have to
put the paper key or percentage of the
words there which is not kind of
friendly a friendly process will be like
pairing the device with the with similar
to how you pair with care cause or even
son when you pair an Apple TV or
something like that it's very protocol
then the thing just just passes through
that would be a better user experience
and that is actually possible by doing a
second version second duration of IP ID
and your ideas could be incorporated in
the internet spec but because it's more
complex we kind of opt for the first one
for now just to get the thing working
and then we can explore those things
later on so I think the point here is in
the future like that's July we could
have a new conversation regarding this
matter so improve the fkd spec to be
more more secure and more more more user
friendly as well but I now on this
understand what do you mean with those
comments yeah yeah I agree I mean I
think getting something moving and
getting like the project underway even
if it's just you have one key please
don't use it
Lizette is is a good way to get started
the reason I think the other
a little bit of thinking on what version
2 is is helpful is because at least in
in a few of the different options that I
put out there I'm having some sort of
multi writer IPS thing is helpful and if
we feel like we're actually gonna start
needing that come June July then it
means that we should make sure that that
gets done by then so that we can move
with it right so it's it's more about
making sure that we have other things
queued up so that when we arrive at
version 2 we have what we need then it
is about having you guys wait on this
other stuff so that you can make version
1 better and make know soon to do
something misused on if you if you look
at the diagram that we have we'll have
key
one thing is a bit perky like because
the the IP ID for someone how basically
you can't lose that key
we'll make sure that you back up that
key and and once done the the key will
be deleted from from the IDM running on
device and the second the second thing
is that once we applied to my PID
version 2 with a better better spec and
so on we can also issue a notification
there saying hey you should approve
operate your IP ID to version 2 and and
the user will follow through the process
of MiG migrating from like I give a
person one to person basically so we can
leverage that alright thank you then
yeah I think yeah that's that's good
called in that we should start
discussing this and thinking about
things so that we don't remember to
start on developing software that that
only on on June or July but that we can
plan that that before she we need motive
attracting happiness and all the good
things cool anyway by the way let me
just say one thing about the multi
writer I penis we all kind of need that
for for the IP ID and also the identity
not that entity but the sinking of
debris firewall credentials as well so
in case of the IP e ID what happens is
that you might be heading to devices at
like concurrently and this means that
two entries on the public key array will
be concurrent like those new addition
additions so we must solve that as well
so the way we are trying to do that is
to solve by having a little layer on top
and that will eventually converge into
into the the same array we still didn't
actually expected out I'm doing that as
part of the suspect typing I'm doing but
there this could be solved by by by
different approaches as you said you can
you can do like a deck deck good three
and just keep the heads and and we start
actually the heads on the on IP NS on
the penis record and when we resolve the
GID document we are resolving those
heads and so on which are kind of
operations operation base deck and we
just reconstruct the the document based
on that but if we go this way we are
complying with IP IDs back because IP
IDs back size that if I resolve that
many snipers it should give you give me
the food up right away so to accomplish
that we must have a stability on top and
not really store operations directly on
designer penis tripod so this is
something that I've been thinking about
and I will think about this phone and
propose something up yeah I just to
clarify briefly I think I think we're on
the same page the when I say like multi
writer IPS like basically all I want is
away because it's gonna be some CRT T
thing right all I want or need is some
way to actually keep track of to
actually keep all of the heads right if
it was a blockchain I would get all the
heads because someone would push them
all in it was a consensus thing like
Derek's been working on it's okay cuz
only one person is pushing all of the
heads that's that's the part that I'm
trying to resolve but underneath
whatever CRT TV is will be fine yeah
that's correct if we if we go that way
as I said we won't be compatible we like
PID unless we propose a change to the IP
IDs back or maybe we for can give it
another name I don't know there are
several ways to do that but at least we
could or we can have two records one is
actually your IP IAE and that's
that map directly to the final Jason and
also you might have a sides
I've been s record another administrator
which keeps a heads that's the real
substitute if if any concept arises or
also like that but I need to think about
the process and how we can approach this
yeah that if you yeah that's interesting
so there there's some solutions where
you have like a by that time fault
tolerant cluster that that is the source
of truth
but there's always the eventual
consistent player for for if you want to
have be highly available highly
available rights and and and there's
there's always some so if you if you
need to go to go to the best source of
truth you go to the gift you have to
layer if you just need to keep keep on
on on putting ahead you go to the you go
to the eventual consistent layer for for
for reads yeah that there's a actually I
can I can I can I can I can point you to
- oh yeah that the presentation we had
like lusts in in Lisbon on the TFS a
quick by I'll remember exactly but but
I'll point you to the to the video which
is like hair on the banister somehow
related yeah interesting
it is this okay I like I like the view
of having died penis record which is
your IP ID basically resulting to the
Jason because it's very easy and and if
we change this back we won't be
compatible with the website which is
yeah in solver Universal the ID result
basically the side nav ID and they
already have the IP ID spec methods
implemented there so if we change the PD
method we have also to take the resolver
that they are using
so I would I would try at his face to
keep the standard complying to the spec
and to the standard that Johnny crunch
made and also to solve the the veto
consistency layer we can leverage
another I finished record or just you
know pure buys or orbit EVs like that in
order to store the heads and and make
them consistent and eventually some of
the peers will write to the Guinness
record in a consistent way more or less
way consistent way
okay I'll post a post a link here I just
made this video play yeah I don't know
how the the the audio loop when they
hear so yeah yeah pasted the video about
that was referring maybe interesting or
not not sure but there's there's there's
that could be an interesting source of
inspiration anyway I think we're way
past the hour or bedtime and so I'm
going to close this here discussions I
mean we can we can continue them in on
github or or or get specific meetings
for that otherwise I will see you next
week thank you thank you bye bye bye